packages/itwin/tree-widget/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to this package

The package is part of the [viewer-components-react](https://github.com/iTwin/viewer-components-react) monorepo - please make sure to have a look at repository's [contribution guidelines](../../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Development

Set up steps:

1. `pnpm install` in repository root to install dependencies.
2. (optional) `pnpm clean` to clear previous build artifacts.
3. `pnpm build --scope tree-widget-react` to build the package.
4. `npm run test` in package root to run its unit tests.

Often, you'll want to see the widget in a running application. For that, we have a test viewer application. To start it in watch mode:

1. Follow steps 1-3 from above.
2. `pnpm build --scope test-viewer` to build the viewer an all its dependencies.
3. `npm run start:test-viewer:watch` in package root to run the viewer. The script should open a browser window with the viewer once it starts. Modifying package code should hot-reload the viewer.

## Testing

We have two sets of tests - [unit tests](#unit-tests) and [end-to-end ones](#end-to-end-tests).

### Unit tests

Purpose of these tests is to make sure each unit (class, function, component, etc.) works according to its specification. CI job requires the tests to cover package source with 100%.

Relevant scripts:

- Run: `npm run test`.
- Measure source coverage: `npm run cover`.

### End-to-end tests

Purpose of end-to-end tests is to make sure the widget and its features work as a whole, taking into account all the dependencies. This is achieved by the test runner ([playwright](https://playwright.dev/)) starting the [test-viewer](../../../apps/test-viewer/README.md) and simulating user actions to test various features of the widget. In addition, our tests take widget screenshots in various situations to ensure we capture all styling changes.

Relevant scripts:

- Run locally: `npm run test:e2e:local`.
- Debug locally: `npm run test:e2e:debug`.
- Run in a Docker container: `npm run test:e2e`. **Note:** This requires [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) to be running on your machine.

Running the tests in a non-CI environment automatically updates all the screenshots - please make sure the visual changes are expected and valid in case the screenshots change. In a CI environment the tests fail if any mismatches are detected.

**Note:** The screenshots might have slight visual differences between platforms. To ensure we always get consistent results, the screenshots should always be generated by running the tests in a docker container (`npm run test:e2e` script).

**Another note:** E2E tests are run against a specific iModel in our QA environment. Contact repository maintainers to get access to that iModel, if needed. The required credentials must be specified in `.env.e2e` at the package root - see `.env.e2e.template` for an example.

Commit message:

E2E test improvements (#1106)
* Build & lint `test-viewer`. Bump `tsc`. Add `dist` script.

* Supply enabled widgets through `widgets` query param

* Move e2e tests user authentication from test viewer to e2e tests, simplify test viewer startup

* Use production build of test-viewer for e2e tests

* Rewrite e2e tests pipeline as gh action

* Remove paths filter, or else the workflow can't be made required

* syntax

* link workspace deps before build

* don't require auth env variables when building test-viewer for e2e

* attempt to fix test-viewer-dist path

* print build args, correctly specify secrets

* put test-viewer dist to a subdir

* use the latest `mcr.microsoft.com/playwright:v1.49.0-noble` as e2e base image

* stop requesting deprecated scopes

* update `CONTRIBUTING.md`

* put back ability to enable widgets using `IMJS_ENABLED_WIDGETS` env var

* `auth` scripts should use `itwin-platform` scope

* change

* add missing eslint deps and fix warnings

* Mention the need to build test viewer before running e2e tests

packages/itwin/tree-widget/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to this package

The package is part of the [viewer-components-react](https://github.com/iTwin/viewer-components-react) monorepo - please make sure to have a look at repository's [contribution guidelines](../../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Development

Set up steps:

1. `pnpm install` in repository root to install dependencies.
2. (optional) `pnpm clean` to clear previous build artifacts.
3. `pnpm build --scope tree-widget-react` to build the package.
4. `npm run test` in package root to run its unit tests.

Often, you'll want to see the widget in a running application. For that, we have a test viewer application. To start it in watch mode:

1. Follow steps 1-3 from above.
2. `pnpm build --to test-viewer` to build the viewer an all its dependencies.
3. `cd apps/test-viewer` to navigate to the viewer app directory.
4. Fill the details in `.env` file in test viewer directory. See `.env.template` for an example.
5. `npm run start:dev` to run the viewer.

## Testing

We have two sets of tests - [unit tests](#unit-tests) and [end-to-end ones](#end-to-end-tests).

### Unit tests

Purpose of these tests is to make sure each unit (class, function, component, etc.) works according to its specification.

Relevant scripts:

- Run: `npm run test`.
- Measure source coverage: `npm run cover`.

### End-to-end tests

Purpose of end-to-end tests is to make sure the widget and its features work as a whole, taking into account all the dependencies. This is achieved by the test runner ([playwright](https://playwright.dev/)) starting the [test-viewer](../../../apps/test-viewer/README.md) and simulating user actions to test various features of the widget. In addition, our tests take widget screenshots in various situations to ensure we capture all styling changes.

Before running e2e tests, test viewer must be built using QA configuration:

1. Set up `.env` in `test-viewer` directory to use QA configuration. See `.env.template` for an example.
2. Run `npm run dist` in `test-viewer` directory to create a production build of the app.

Relevant scripts:

- Run locally: `npm run test:e2e:local`.
- Debug locally: `npm run test:e2e:debug`.
- Run in a Docker container: `npm run test:e2e`. **Note:** This requires [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) to be running on your machine.

Running the tests in a non-CI environment automatically updates all the screenshots - please make sure the visual changes are expected and valid in case the screenshots change. In a CI environment the tests fail if any mismatches are detected.

**Note:** The screenshots might have slight visual differences between platforms. To ensure we always get consistent results, the screenshots should always be generated by running the tests in a docker container (`npm run test:e2e` script).

**Another note:** E2E tests are run against a specific iModel in our QA environment. Contact repository maintainers to get access to that iModel, if needed. The required credentials must be specified in `.env.e2e` at the package root - see `.env.e2e.template` for an example.
