# Contributing to this package

The package is part of the [viewer-components-react](https://github.com/iTwin/viewer-components-react) monorepo - please make sure to have a look at repository's [contribution guidelines](../../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Development

Set up steps:

1. `pnpm install` in repository root to install dependencies.
2. (optional) `pnpm clean` to clear previous build artifacts.
3. `pnpm build --scope tree-widget-react` to build the package.
4. `npm run test` in package root to run its unit tests.

Often, you'll want to see the widget in a running application. For that, we have a test viewer application. To start it in watch mode:

1. Follow steps 1-3 from above.
2. `pnpm build --to test-viewer` to build the viewer an all its dependencies.
3. `cd apps/test-viewer` to navigate to the viewer app directory.
4. Fill the details in `.env` file in test viewer directory. See `.env.template` for an example.
5. `npm run start:dev` to run the viewer.

## Testing

We have two sets of tests - [unit tests](#unit-tests) and [end-to-end ones](#end-to-end-tests).

### Unit tests

Purpose of these tests is to make sure each unit (class, function, component, etc.) works according to its specification.

Relevant scripts:

- Run: `npm run test`.
- Measure source coverage: `npm run cover`.

### End-to-end tests

Purpose of end-to-end tests is to make sure the widget and its features work as a whole, taking into account all the dependencies. This is achieved by the test runner ([playwright](https://playwright.dev/)) starting the [test-viewer](../../../apps/test-viewer/README.md) and simulating user actions to test various features of the widget. In addition, our tests take widget screenshots in various situations to ensure we capture all styling changes.

Relevant scripts:

- Run locally: `npm run test:e2e:local`.
- Debug locally: `npm run test:e2e:debug`.
- Run in a Docker container: `npm run test:e2e`. **Note:** This requires [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) to be running on your machine.

Running the tests in a non-CI environment automatically updates all the screenshots - please make sure the visual changes are expected and valid in case the screenshots change. In a CI environment the tests fail if any mismatches are detected.

**Note:** The screenshots might have slight visual differences between platforms. To ensure we always get consistent results, the screenshots should always be generated by running the tests in a docker container (`npm run test:e2e` script).

**Another note:** E2E tests are run against a specific iModel in our QA environment. Contact repository maintainers to get access to that iModel, if needed. The required credentials must be specified in `.env.e2e` at the package root - see `.env.e2e.template` for an example.
